<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>

<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">

<concept id="what-is-postman">

    <title>What is Postman?</title>
  
  	<shortdesc>
        Learn what Postman is, why it is used, and how it simplifies working with APIs.
    </shortdesc>

    <conbody>

        <p>Postman is an API platform that helps developers design, test, document, monitor, and collaborate on APIs throughout the API lifecycle.</p>
        
            <p conref="../common/api-definition.dita#api-definition/api-description"/>
        
        <p>It provides a graphical interface for sending HTTP requests, inspecting responses, organizing API requests into collections, and automating common development tasks.</p>

        <p>Although Postman is widely used by software developers, it is also valuable for testers, technical writers, DevOps engineers, product managers, and anyone who works with APIs.</p>

        <section>

    <title>Why use Postman?</title>

        <p>Postman simplifies working with APIs by providing a single platform for designing, testing, documenting, and managing API requests.</p>

        <ul>
            <li>Send and test HTTP requests.</li>
            <li>Inspect API responses.</li>
            <li>Organize requests into collections.</li>
            <li>Collaborate with team members.</li>
            <li>Document APIs.</li>
        </ul>

        <note type="note">
            Postman is available as both a desktop application and a web application. Most guides in this documentation use the desktop application.
        </note>
        </section>

    </conbody>

</concept>